I want to talk to you a little bit about
what's happening in the United States
because the US defense department has
described this weekend's actions by
Hamas as quote ISIS level savagery in a
briefing to reporters a senior defense
official added that the US is working to
expedite Israel's requests for more
Munitions and air defense the official
added that quote planes have already
taken off to deliver some of the support
requested additionally the USS Ford
strike group is expected to arrive in
the area very soon with capabilities
ranging from intelligence gathering to
long range strikes that includes the
carrier and accompanying Cruisers and
destroyers the defense department is
also working with Israel and other
partners to contain the conflict in Gaza
well us officials also say they have not
seen coroporation of Iran being directly
involved in the planning of Saturday's
attack and if you remember just in the
last hour or so the Iranian supreme
leader um aah Ki has said that Iran did
not have any involvement in that attack
but that he kissed the hands of those
who did how did Israeli intelligence
Services seemingly failed to detect
Saturday's attack by Hamas well retired
US Army Lieutenant General Mark Schwarz
served as the US security coordinator
for Israel and the Palestinian Authority
until 2021 he spoke to us about the
serious failure of intelligence I think
uh what the assessment is now after 72
hours post attack um the level of
discipline that Hamas exercised in
staying off of technical Communications
uh to plan this uh operation this raid
that they actually conducted incursion
into Israel and the terrorist acts
followed I think that was the the key is
that they you know they're they're an
enemy and a terrorist organization that
learns not only from other terrorist
organizations in uh you know in the
region but also from their own EXP
experiences and they knew that by
communicating and planning using any
type of technical means those the
operation would have gotten compromised
so I think that's in my assessment based
on what I've heard in open source
reporting that that's the most likely
way that they were able to successfully
pulled this
off